# Gcov in cmake

Gcov is a code coverage tool used in software development to measure how thoroughly your source code is being tested by your test suite. It is typically used in conjunction with the GNU Compiler Collection (GCC) for C, C++, and Fortran programming languages.

The coverage report produced by gcov provides information on the percentage of code that was executed, highlighting areas that have not been adequately tested. It shows line-by-line coverage, indicating whether each line was executed, skipped, or not executed at all. This information helps developers identify areas of their code that need more comprehensive testing.

To generate gcov reports using CMake, follow these steps:

```bash
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
make
./gcov
```

## gcov command

Now, you can use the `gcov` command:

```bash
gcov CMakeFiles/gcov.dir/src/main.c
cat main.c.gcov
```

The cat command will show you the gcov command result.

## lcov command 
However, if you want to generate an HTML report you should use `lcov`.

`lcov` is a command-line tool that works in conjunction with gcov to provide a more comprehensive and human-readable code coverage report. It collects coverage data generated by gcov and formats it into an HTML or text-based report, making it easier to analyze the code coverage results.

For having the result mentioned above, in the [build](build/) folder run the following instructions:

```bash
lcov --capture --directory . --output-file coverage.info
genhtml coverage.info --output-directory coverage_report
```

In this way, in [coverage_report](build/coverage_report) folder will be present an HTML coverage report generated by the coverage data file coverage.info.
